# Automated_Audit_Reconciliations
We present algorithms to extract data from annual reports (PDF files) using the Python programming language with the aim to automate the financial statements during the auditing process.

Auditors need to reconcile audit evidence to the object that they are auditing, which is often in a Portable Document Format (PDF). These reconciliations are a recurring task at every new version of the audit object. The reconciliations can be time-consuming, are generally not considered the most enjoyable task in the audit, are subject to human error and are of little added value to the auditee and financial statement users. Audit firms tend to offshore simple and standardizable audit tasks to shared service centers (Daugherty, Dickins, & Fennema, 2012). Outsourcing however comes at the expense of coordination costs, delays in the process (Hanes, 2013) and challenges regarding the liability risk that the auditor faces (Lyubimov, Arnold, & Sutton, 2013). This work presents an open-source algorithm to extract data from annual reports (PDF files) using a Python programming script to automate the financial statements reconciliations in an audit of Dutch investment funds. We jointly developed this use case as academics and practitioners and it resulted in a significant time saving for the audit team. The same technique can be applied to other countries and industries and has potential for academics to automate their data gather activities from filed financial statements in PDF format.

This work is performed by:
Wim Janssen, Alaa Khzam, Tjibbe Bosman, Jeroen Bellinga, and Seyit Hocuk. Most of the coding is done by Alaa Khzam and Wim Janssen.
